v7.0.0-beta.4 (#12183)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.0.0-beta.4

_Feb 23, 2024_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 10 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🎁 Introduce a new DOM structure for the field components that provides a better accessibility

> - 🐞 Bugfixes

Author: ```suggestion
- 🚀 Simplify Data Grid DOM structure for improved performance (#12013) @romgrk
- 🐞 Bugfixes
```

- 📚 Documentation improvements

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@7.0.0-beta.4`

> - [DataGrid] Performance: DOM changes (#12013) @romgrk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Simplify cell DOM structure (#12013) @romgrk
```

> - [DataGrid] Performance: DOM changes (#12013) @romgrk

Reviewer 2: Already in the migration guide, the notable one would be that cells aren't `display: flex` by default, so not vertically centered by default, not sure if we want to repeat it here.

> - [DataGrid] Performance: DOM changes (#12013) @romgrk

Author: > Would it make sense to add this item in the highlights? 🤔

Why not, let's add it. 👌

> - [DataGrid] SingleSelect columns stopped getting the label correctly for "is any of" starting from 7.0.0-alpha.7 (#11939) @gitstart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix values labels in `is any of` filter operator (#11939) @gitstart
```

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.0.0-beta.4` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@7.0.0-beta.4`.

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@7.0.0-beta.4` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.0.0-beta.4`.

### Date Pickers

#### Breaking changes

- The `selectedSections` prop no longer accepts start and end indexes.
  When selecting several — but not all — sections, the field components were not behaving correctly, you can now only select one or all sections:

  ```diff
   <DateField
  -  selectedSections={{ startIndex: 0, endIndex: 0 }}
  +  selectedSections={0}
  
     // If the field has 3 sections
  -  selectedSections={{ startIndex: 0, endIndex: 2 }}
  +  selectedSections="all"
   />
  ```

> - The headless field hooks (e.g.: `useDateField`) now return a new prop called `enableAccessibleFieldDOMStructure`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The headless field hooks (e.g.: `useDateField`) now returns a new prop called `enableAccessibleFieldDOMStructure`.
```

>   This is used to know if the current UI expected is built using the accessible DOM structure or not. Learn more about this new [accessible DOM structure](/x/react-date-pickers/fields/#accessible-dom-structure).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This property is utilized to determine whether the anticipated UI is constructed using an accessible DOM structure. Learn more about this new [accessible DOM structure](/x/react-date-pickers/fields/#accessible-dom-structure).
```

 When building a custom UI, you are most-likely only supporting one DOM structure, so you can remove `enableAccessibleFieldDOMStructure` before it is passed to the DOM:

  ```diff
    function MyCustomTextField(props) {
      const {
  +     // Should be ignored
  +     enableAccessibleFieldDOMStructure,

>   
>         // ... rest of the props you are using
>       }

Reviewer 4: Not sure
```suggestion
        // ... rest of the props you are using
      } = props;
```

Reviewer 5: Mmmhhh make sense
But should also be fixed in the migration guide

  +     // If you only support one DOM structure, we advise you to hardcode it here to avoid unwanted switches in your application
  +     enableAccessibleFieldDOMStructure: false,
      });
  
      return <MyCustomTextField ref={ref} {...fieldResponse} />;
    }
  
    function App() {
      return <DatePicker slots={{ field: MyCustomField }} />;
    }
  ```

- The following internal types were exported by mistake and have been removed from the public API:

  - `UseDateFieldDefaultizedProps`
  - `UseTimeFieldDefaultizedProps`
  - `UseDateTimeFieldDefaultizedProps`
  - `UseSingleInputDateRangeFieldComponentProps`
  - `UseSingleInputTimeRangeFieldComponentProps`
  - `UseSingleInputDateTimeRangeFieldComponentProps`

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.0.0-beta.4`

- [fields] Use the `PickersTextField` component in the fields (#10649) @flaviendelangle
- [pickers] Fix styling props propagation to `DateTimePickerTabs` (#12096) @LukasTy

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@7.0.0-beta.4` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.0.0-beta.4`.

### Charts / `@mui/x-charts@7.0.0-beta.4`

#### Breaking changes

> Those components are not longer exported by `@mui/x-charts`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These components are no longer exported from `@mui/x-charts`:
```

- `CartesianContextProvider`
- `DrawingProvider`

#### `@mui/x-charts@7.0.0-beta.4`

> - [charts] Don't display text if no value provided (#12127) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [charts] Don't display text if no value is provided (#12127) @alexfauquette
```

- [charts] Remove export of context providers (#12123) @oliviertassinari

### Tree View / `@mui/x-tree-view@7.0.0-beta.4`

- [TreeView] Stop using custom `findIndex` to support IE11 (#12129) @flaviendelangle

### Docs

> - [docs] Add recipe for hiding separator on non-resizable columns (#12134) @michelengelen

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [docs] Add recipe for hiding separator on non-resizable columns (#12134) @michelengelen
- [docs] Add small improvements to the Gauge Chart page (#12076) @danilo-leal
- [docs] Add the 'point' scaleType to the axis documentation (#12179) @alexfauquette
```

> - [docs] Clarify Pickers `Component composition` section (#12097) @LukasTy

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
- [docs] Clarify Pickers "Component composition" section (#12097) @LukasTy
```

> - [docs] Fix "Licensing" page link (#12156) @LukasTy

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [docs] Fix "Licensing" page link (#12156) @LukasTy
- [docs] Fix the Treemap illustration (#12185) @danilo-leal
```

- [docs] Fix error raised by Grammarly on the page @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Improve performance on charts entry point @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Link to react-transition group with https @oliviertassinari

> - [docs] Move Heat map to pro (#12047) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [docs] Move Heatmap to pro (#12047) @alexfauquette
```

Reviewer 3: or
```suggestion
- [docs] Move `Heatmap` to pro (#12047) @alexfauquette
```

Reviewer 6: or
```suggestion
- [docs] Move Heatmap Chart to `pro` plan (#12047) @alexfauquette
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [docs] Move Heatmap to `pro` plan (#12047) @alexfauquette
```

- [docs] Reduce number of Vale errors @oliviertassinari

> - [docs] Remove default value set to undefined (#12128) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [docs] Remove default value set to `undefined` (#12128) @alexfauquette
```

### Core

- [core] Fix docs link check (#12135) @LukasTy
- [core] Fix missing context display names (#12124) @oliviertassinari
- [core] Fix shortcuts when Caps Lock enabled (#12121) @oliviertassinari
- [core] Remove IE 11 compat logic (#12119) @oliviertassinari
- [core] Simplify key utils (#12120) @oliviertassinari
- [core] Use the @mui/internal-scripts package (#12142) @michaldudak

> - [all components] Remove legacy IE 11 bundle (#12151) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 6: @MBilalShafi What are we doing with this one? 🤔 
It impacts all the packages and, as mentioned, is a breaking change.
WDYT about listing it in highlights and also on every package?

> - [all components] Remove legacy IE 11 bundle (#12151) @flaviendelangle

Author: I guess adding a highlight would be enough. Wdyt?
Also, it feels if it is not _technically_ a breaking change since the change is not done to the API of any component, would you put it in breaking changes too?

> - [all components] Remove legacy IE 11 bundle (#12151) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 6: Well, it's not a BC to everyone, but still a BC in the sense that after this we no longer support legacy browsers like IE11. 🤔 
IMHO, it would be enough to list it in the highlights only.
But with a clear description.
Like:
```suggestion
- 🕥 The support for IE11 has been removed (#12151) @flaviendelangle
  We no longer provide a `legacy` bundle that used to support old browsers like IE11.
```

WDYT @flaviendelangle

> - [all components] Remove legacy IE 11 bundle (#12151) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 5: > Also, it feels if it is not technically a breaking change since the change is not done to the API of any component

IMHO this is a breaking change
People can have an app that works before and that no longer works for some of their users.

Strictly speaking I think this should be listed in each set of components.
But it's a limitation of our current README structure, anything related to all components is super redundant if we want to apply it correctly to all sets of components.

Given the very low usage of IE11 and the fact that I think we were already not compatible (we had usages of `arr.findIndex` in the app, which IE11 does not support and in one place a small polyfill), I'd be fine only adding it in the highlights.

> - [all components] Remove legacy IE 11 bundle (#12151) @flaviendelangle

Author: I suggested a top-level breaking change for this change, let me know what you think about it.
We could add other BCs that apply to all components in that section (for future)

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.0.0-beta.4

_Feb 23, 2024_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 10 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🎁 Introduce a new DOM structure for the field components that provides a better accessibility
- 🚀 Simplify Data Grid DOM structure for improved performance (#12013) @romgrk
- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 📚 Documentation improvements

### Data Grid

> 

Author: ```suggestion

#### Breaking changes

- The cell inner wrapper `.MuiDataGrid-cellContent` has been removed, use `.MuiDataGrid-cell` to style the cells.

```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.0.0-beta.4

_Feb 23, 2024_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 10 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🎁 Introduce a new DOM structure for the field components that provides a better accessibility
- 🚀 Simplify Data Grid DOM structure for improved performance (#12013) @romgrk

> - 🐞 Bugfixes

Author: ```suggestion
- ⚰️ Remove legacy IE11 bundle
- 🐞 Bugfixes
```

- 📚 Documentation improvements

> 

Author: May be add it to the top level breaking changes:
```suggestion

### Breaking changes

- Legacy IE11 bundle has been removed for all MUI X components

```

Author: Do we want to suggest some workaround?
CC @flaviendelangle @LukasTy

Author: Given the descriptive highlight, I feel this doesn't make sense anymore.

Reviewer 6: Maybe not `components`, but `packages`? 🤔

Author: Ended up adding it, we could always follow-up the conversation and update the changes.
I'm gonna release it now.

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.0.0-beta.4

_Feb 23, 2024_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 10 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🎁 Introduce a new DOM structure for the field components that provides a better accessibility

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
